# FUTURE_DS_02
## Task 2: Social Media Campaign Performance Tracker (Tableau)

This repository will house my work for *Task 2* of my internship with Future Interns.
This task entailed the analysis of social media ad campaign data for a fintech company to provide their marketing team with insights such as *top ads by engagement*, *click through rate (CTR)*, *conversion rate* and ultimately, *pointers for improvement* on their next ad campaign. I used *Tableau* for this task. I chose *Tableau* for this task as I'm a *MacOS* user but a similar dashboard can be achieved using *Power BI*.

## Dashboard Insights
- Total Spent for campaign.
- Total Impressions garnered by campaign.
- Conversion Rate.
- Click Through Rate (CTR).
- Cost Per Click (CPC).
- Total Ads ran under campaign.
- Total Impressions by Gender.
- Total Clicks generated by Gender.
- Total Impressions generated by Day.
- Trend of CTR over time.
- Total Impressions by Age.
- Trend of Impressions by Age Group.
- Total Spend per Ad ID.
- Top 10 Ads by Engagement.
- Total Conversion vs. Approved Conversion per Ad ID.
- Top 10 Ads by Engagement.
- Interactive Filters: Filter insights by *Gender*, *Age group*.

## Repository Structure
- Tableau Files:
  
  Dashboard: https://github.com/OsazeleMomoh/FUTURE_DS_02/blob/main/Task2%20-%20Future%20Interns.twb
  
  Link 1: https://public.tableau.com/views/SocialMediaCampaignPerformanceTracker-1/Dashboard1?:language=en-GB&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link
  
  Link 2: https://public.tableau.com/views/SocialMediaCampaignPerformanceTracker-2/Dashboard12?:language=en-GB&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link
 
- Screenshots:
  
  1. https://github.com/OsazeleMomoh/FUTURE_DS_02/blob/main/Task2%20-%20Future%20Interns.png
  
  2. https://github.com/OsazeleMomoh/FUTURE_DS_02/blob/main/Task2%20-%20Continuation.png

- Dataset: https://github.com/OsazeleMomoh/FUTURE_DS_02/blob/main/data_cleaned.csv

## Highlights from Analysis
- Females (F) generate the most impressions (114.8M) and the most clicks (23.8k).
- Impressions are highest on Wednesdays. 
- The campaign seems to appeal to Age groups 30-34 and 45-49.
- CTR varies per day, showing varying levels of engagement. CTR then declines as time goes by, showing that the campaign was losing its appeal.
- Only 2 ads from the top 10 ads by allocated total ad spend, pulled in enquiries and active users.
- Impressions with most age groups was on a high trend until 21st August, which then saw a decline. The exception was age groups 35-39, which saw a steady decline until 21st August and then tanked further.

## Recommendations - Next Campaign
- Prioritise advertising on high traffic days like Wednesdays. Saturdays and Thursdays are good as well.
- Adjust ad targeting strategies with gender and age distribution in mind.
- Reallocate ad spend budget on Ads that pull the most enquiries and active users.
- Keep an eye on the CTR trend to continuously optimize content and ad placement.

## Skills Gained
- Data Cleaning.
- Marketing Analytics.
- Marketing Metrics Demystified - CTR, CPC, Conversion Rate, Reach & Impressions.
- Trend and Forecast Analysis.
- DAX (Data Analysis Expressions).
- Data presentation.

## How to use
1. Download or clone this repository.
2. Open the *Tableau* files with *Tableau Desktop* OR click the links to view via *Tableau Public* website.
3. Explore the interactive dashboard and insights.

---

This dashboard offers a detailed, data-centric visual of Meta ad campaign metrics: performance, engagement and spend, which equips the marketing team with insights needed to drive strategic optimizations and enhance the conversion rate of subsequent ad campaigns.

